# UnityNoiseTest
A simple script for testing some weird properties of Unity's Mathf.PerlinNoise() method.

Introduction
------------

This repository contains a very simple test of properties of Unity's Perlin noise. If you decide to run this test and report back the results:

a) Thank you so much, not many people do, and

b) It's simple, requiring only basic knowledge of Unity Editor and it shouldn't take you more than a few minutes.

(The following is a copy-paste of my original post in the Sailwind Discord server:)

What is it? Well, since I'm working on a procedural terrain generator, for various reasons I wanted to get a better grip on the distribution of the values generated by the built-in Mathf.PerlinNoise(). The official documentation says that the method generates values from 0 to 1, although occasionally it can return values slightly above 1 or below 0. As I started testing things to get more details I realised this isn't exactly the case. There seems to be a bias towards lower values and the distribution is a little asymmetrical. I've asked about this on Unity Answers here if you want more details (https://answers.unity.com/questions/1904122/unity-perlin-noise-value-distributiondistribution.html), but so far haven't got any good answers (personally I think they should rename it to Unity Questions, would be more descriptive) as to whether this is some error on my part, something wrong with my PC or if it is an actual problem with the method. So that's what I want to test here.

How to Run the Test
-------------------

I've written a short script that generates some values using the PerlinNoise() method and logs them into a text file. You can download it above or at this link: https://github.com/Tubusus/UnityNoiseTest/blob/main/NoiseSampler.cs. The steps are as follows:

1. Download the script "NoiseSampler.cs" and import it into a Unity project (Any project works, it's a simple C# script that shouldn't break anything - it doesn't really interact with anything except random number generator and PerlinNoise() and you can disable / remove it afterwards anyway. But of course I won't stop you if you want to create a new project for it.)

2. Attach the script to an (active) game object in the current scene

3. Run the game in Play mode by clicking the 'play' arrow at the top (or use the keyboard shortcut which I don't remember). You should get several messages written in the debug log.

4. There now should be a file named "noiseData.txt" in the project's root folder (or wherever the debug messages say, if it's for some reason different). Take it and upload it here, if you can (probably not, I'm new to GitHub and I'm not entirely sure what I'm doing) or somewhere else and send me the link. You can find me as @AdamCZima on Twitter or as Tubusus#8402 on Discord. If you don't mind joining and unrelated (but cool) Discord server, you can also upload it into the original thread on the #gamedev channel on the Sailwind server (https://discord.gg/DtHqT8y6) where I posted this originally.

After (or rather 'If'?) I get enough responses (even one will be helpful, but the more people do this the more we can learn from the data) I'll analyse it and post the results here. So far the "baseline" value of the noise seems to be 0.4652731 as opposed to what it really should be, 0.5. Let's see if it's the same for others. 
